Linux Commands:

PWD:
The you are here sign can be displayed with the pwd command (Print Working Directory). 
paul@debian8:~$ pwd
/home/paul

cd
You can change your current directory with the cd command (Change Directory).
paul@debian8$ cd /etc
paul@debian8$ pwd
/etc


cd ~
The cd is also a shortcut to get back into your home directory.

cd -
Another useful shortcut with cd is to just type cd - to go to the previous directory.

ls
You can list the contents of a directory with ls.
paul@debian8:~$ ls
allfiles.txt dmesg.txt services stuff summer.txt
paul@debian8:~$

ls -a
A frequently used option with ls is -a to show all files. Showing all files means including
the hidden files. When a file name on a Linux file system starts with a dot, it is considered
a hidden file and it doesn't show up in regular file listings.

ls -l
Many times you will be using options with ls to display the contents of the directory in
different formats or to display different parts of the directory. Typing just ls gives you a list
of files in the directory. Typing ls -l (that is a letter L, not the number 1) gives you a long
listing.

mkdir
Walking around the Unix file tree isfun, but it is even more fun to create your own directories
with mkdir. You have to give at least one parameter to mkdir, the name of the new directory
to be created.

rmdir
When a directory is empty, you can use rmdir to remove the directory.

rmdir -p
And similar to the mkdir -p option, you can also use rmdir to recursively remove
directories.

touch
create an empty file

rm
remove forever
When you no longer need a file, use rm to remove it.

rm -i
To prevent yourself from accidentally removing a file, you can type rm -i.

rm -rf
By default, rm -r will not remove non-empty directories. However rm accepts several
options that will allow you to remove any directory. The rm -rf statement is famous because
it will erase anything (providing that you have the permissions to do so). When you are
logged on as root, be very careful with rm -rf (the f means force and the r means recursive)
since being root implies that permissions don't apply to you. You can literally erase your
entire file system by accident.






